Title: Houtland

## Houtland

Northern Europe used to be covered by forest, but eventually that forest was
cut down for development of civilisations.

During my research I stumbled upon the definition of Holland and was
astonished that it derives from the old dutch word for Houtland meaning
woodland.

”The Netherlands," early 14c., from Dutch Holland, probably Old Dutch holt-
lant "wood land," describing the district around Dordrecht, the nucleus of
Holland. Technically, just one province of the Netherlands, but in English its
use extended to the whole nation.” [3]

The region mentioned was where the early Dutch would harvest its timber for
building and boat constructions. Later the development of reclaiming land from the sea led to a boom in agricultural innovation. Available land was used
extensively for farming, leaving no space for forest growthshaping the Dutch
landscape and food culture that we know today.

### What if the Netherlands was covered with trees?

The proposal is a complete reforestation of the country imagined through an
array of different scenarios: a forest taking over the Dutch landscape, making
the Netherlands the first truly green country on this planet.

For the moment three forms come to mind: urban, productive and wild forest,
giving space for all participants in this interconnected system. A deep and
mutual relationship synthesises a resilient and diverse landscape. Trees will
even play a part in food production. Acorns, Hazelnuts and Chestnuts could
become a staple in the future diet of the Dutch in the forms of Chestnut
cheese, Acorn bread, or Hazelnut milk.

I noticed during my studies and talks with parties in the food chain that the
food chain system, despite being so highly efficient, must transition from a
system based on chemical fertiliser, monoculture and industrialised pig
stables towards a more permanent, soil-supporting system. Furthermore I
observe that every city talked about increasing greenery in densely urban
areas to improve living quality. All over the country we see urban garden
communities popping up where people come together to think about alternative
approaches to produce food and integrate green in our surroundings. The
combination of all these green movements led me to the realisation that we are
in need of living matter around us. Concrete on its own does not seem to
satisfy us. It is even proven by Japanese-Dutch researchers that walks in a
forest are stress reducing and beneficial for our human immune system. This
trend is not only visible in the Netherlands. It is seen in every
industrialised country where living space in cities gets dense. I take these
developments as a base for my proposal to reforest the entire Netherlands. I
believe that introducing this idea can spark a big discussion of what forest
actually is and how we could integrate trees in such a compact living
environment.


---

[3] Dictionary.com