Title:Productive Forest

## Productive Forest

To introduce forest in a large scale in the Netherlands we need to develop a
highly productive and super sustainable alternative agricultural system based
on the use of trees.

Therefore I propose an alternative system to the contemporary Dutch farming
culture. Introducing a system in which human, plants and animals support,
rather then exploit each other. Inspired by the concept of permaculture and
the ideas of a permanent agriculture by Joseph Russell Smith, we investigate
in how to use native trees to produce a large amount of our food. These trees
are so called crop trees, like the oak, the hazelnut and the chestnut. This
trees are native in the Netherlands and therefore grow naturally in our woods.

Agroforestry is the practice of planting trees in lines on crop fields. This
has several benefits such as the protection from erosion. Depending on the
trees planted, the farmer also has access to new resources such as fruit,
timber – which can supplement their income while other crops are growing, or
even be used to directly generate energy for the farm.

A concern is that the trees’ roots will compete with those of the crops for
valuable resources. But studies have shown that tree roots actually pull their
energy from much deeper in the ground, meaning there’s little overlap.

Productive forest will cover a large portion of the Dutch landscape. In fact,
agroforestry looks like a pretty good technique for Dutch farmers, just as it
has proven to be for many others. Organised in a cell structure, this new
system can produce a large amount of human and animal food. The productive
forest functions in multi -layered systems where biodiversity enables strong
and resilient structures which need less human intervention and allow for
bigger yields. With this system we propagate a symbiotic relationship between
humans plants and animals.
