Title:On Natural Growth

## On Natural Growth

The transition towards a system based on natural growth must integrate the idea
of an alternative economic system into our existing economy.

“Much of the economic decay is undoubtedly due to a heedless and shameful
“neglect of trees.” [4]

We separate the elements from nature and convert them into an irreversible
state. That is industrial production. Nature on the other hand works in the
totally opposite way. Natural systems produce by bringing elements together,
atom by atom. All things in nature are composed of the same building blocks
which return to the earth and are continually cycled through the system. Can we
envision a production system which could function by this principle? My answer
to that question is: the forest. A functioning forest is exactly this kind of
system based on natural growth and decay. It produces and consumes at the same
time while it keeps the balance among all factors. I like to call it producing
in harmony, according the philosophy of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam . A Sanskrit
phrase [5] found in Hindu texts such as the Maha Upanishad, which means "the world
is one family. One might call it esoteric or naturalistic, but I do believe that
the idea of natural production can be very well translated in contemporary
western society. The challenge here is that we need to rethink our current
systems where profit is valued more that continuity and balance.”

The next question would be how can we use the ideas of natural growth to supply
us humans with products and at the same time enable all other living beings to
thrive for a fulfilled live. This I discovered in the process of this project. I think one possible answer could lie in how we place ourselves in the ecological system of the planet.

Of course, humans can see ourselves as the dominant race. We are able to
influence most known production chains and interactions: the problem being that
often this influence hinders the natural course of things. The more challenging
thought is then, how can we redefine our dominant role towards a role as the
enabler of natural systems. We may still see ourselves as the most developed
race on this planet but the primary goals would shift from a human centred
perspective to a system orientated perspective in a more complicated and
holistic way. We will define ourselves as part of the system which has the
ability to help others to grow.

---

[4] E F Schumacher, German economist.
[5] Philosophy of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam.
