Title:Balano culture and future of food in the Netherlands

## Balano culture and future of food in the Netherlands 

In the future nuts will play a big part in the diet of the Dutch, such as
Hazelnuts, Walnuts and Acorns.

Acorns are a neglected food for people, livestock, and domestic animals. Acorns
are easy to collect, store, and process. In addition to the nutritious nut and
meal, acorns yield an oil comparable in quality and flavor with olive oil. The
existing acorn market could be greatly expanded and provide new income for rural
people. A serious effort to identify and propagate the best oak acorn cultivars
for these products is long overdue. [6]

Acorns have been used as food by Homo sapiens for thousands of years virtually
everywhere oaks are found. The worldwide destruction of the acorn resource by
mismanagement may well have led to the development of annual plant based
agriculture and to civilisation as we know it today. In Europe, Asia, North
Africa, the Mid-East, and North America, acorns were once a staple food. Balanos
is Greek for acorns, and balanoculture was first mentioned in an article by
David Bainbridge to describe cultures who derive significant subsistence from
acorns. [7] Gathering and processing time for acorns is minimal relative to the
labor required to grow annual cereal grains. He argues that the domestication of
goats which prefer to browse oak seedlings, rising populations afforded by
abundant acorns, and the cutting of trees for fuels, led to the demise of the
great oak woodlands of the Middle East and China and the balanocultures they
supported. Immediately following was the emergence of agriculture and the birth
of granoculture.

It takes an Oak tree on average 30 years to begin bearing palatable fruit. Thus
by planting an acorn today, one would help enable a renaissance in balanoculture by 2047.

---

[6] Jane Zhang, Thesies MDes â€™17, Havard University Schoo of Design.
[7] David Robert James Bainbridge, Science writer at University of Cambridge.